Blade Runner Robocop Star Wars Star Trek
aliens predator Terminator Back to the
Future Ghostbusters Bill and Ted action
horror comedy science fiction has it all
and if you're a retro kind of guy like
me you just love going back to the past
and watching a great documentary there's
you know nothing can beat it and the
only decade when it comes to science
fiction
the only decade as good as the 50s is
the 80s the ultimate retrospective on
80s sci-fi in search of tomorrow is
coming soon it's the definitive four
hour plus documentary about 80 sci-fi
they have a stellar line-up of 40 plus a
list actors directors writers composers
and effects artists people like John
Carpenter Paul beare Hoeven and Ernie
Hudson oh and there's even going to be
an interview with a certain nerd their
horror documentary in search of darkness
is one of the highest grossing
independent documentaries so I'm really
looking forward to seeing what they do
with this one so if you're interested
please click the Kickstarter link in the
description to help crowd fund the
project it's almost like thousands of
mad scientist's bringing a fantastical
monster to life for more information
head to 80s sci-fi dot-com that's 80
sci-fi dot-com now let's watch this
review about the original the thing the
original you know that movie the thing
about a team of scientists who
investigate a crashed alien spaceship
the one where the alien escapes from a
block of ice and goes on a rampage it's
the original alien invader movie the one
on the TV and Halloween yes that movie
by Howard Hawks from 1951 oh wait you
thought I meant the John Carpenter
remake from 1982 no I'm talking about
the original if you already knew that
that means you have good taste in
classic movies or you just know me very
well
the carpenter version is great too but
somehow it's become the automatic
default whenever anyone says the thing
it's just assumed like why on earth
would you be talking about the original
when classics fade from history that
makes me very sad
technically the original Hawks version
was called the thing from another world
that was the full title but it was
always known as the thing I mean just
look at the title screen which part
stands out the Google results are a
tragedy if you type in the thing all you
get is the carpenter version on Amazon
there's a blu-ray double pack that says
it includes the original but it's really
the 1982 and 2011 versions when that
2011 version came out that's when I
realized how much of a problem that says
because everyone kept calling it the
thing remake without knowing it was a
remake of a remake and if you prefer the
carpenter version over the original
that's totally acceptable but lots of
people don't even know the original
exists or regarded as an insignificant
footnote like oh yeah there is this old
black and white version yeah that old
version that happened to be an all-time
classic that created a whole genre and
then got left for dead it's ironic that
Carpenter loved the original and was
paying tribute to it but accidentally
wiped it from history somebody's got to
save it and that's what I'm trying to do
here imagine if one of your favorite
movies got remade and then nobody talks
about the original anymore it's [__]
just to give a little context the
original came out at a time when the
topic of UFOs was becoming mainstream it
kicked off in 1947 with the Roswell
incident which was when a military
balloon crashed in Roswell New Mexico
and the newspaper ran a story that a
flying saucer was captured and during
that time people were wrapped up in
rumours conspiracy theories and growing
paranoia when the thing came out in 1951
it tapped into that fear so it wasn't
the first to establish the idea of
flying saucers nor was it the only movie
to popularize the idea the same year
they also made the Day the Earth Stood
Still but that one was about a friendly
alien whereas the thing was hostile in
1953 we had War of the Worlds which was
a major breakthrough in special effects
and in depicting alien spaceships
causing destruction
not to mention it was in full-color then
as you go into the mid late 50s you have
Forbidden Planet Earth vs. the flying
saucers and invasion of the body
snatchers they're all important in
shaping the alien invader and space
genre as we know it today but when it
comes to the hostile alien invader the
one that's trying to kill people really
the thing was the first major one the
direct and credit was given to Christian
Nye by but it's been reported that
Howard Hawks who had the producers
credit was very hands on and it's widely
considered to simply be a Howard Hawks
movie he didn't always do science
fiction he made westerns film noir and
comedies he dabbled in just about every
genre I guess you can call him the
original Stanley Kubrick the best word I
could use to describe this movie is
chilling it delivers those good
old-fashioned chills I love the setting
and the ice and snow so there's always
this sense of isolation I love how it
builds up to the discovery of the
spacecraft all they know is something
unexplained crash-landed nobody wants to
jump to the conclusion that it's from
outer space but we all know where it's
heading when they go out onto the ice
and find it underneath they all gather
around to determine the shape and as I
said before flying saucers were already
established so as soon as you see them
form a circle it communicates that idea
instantly
what a great reveal then they try to
blow it out of the ice using bombs but
they accidentally destroy it which is
unpredictable and a rather humorous turn
of events and then they discover the
alien body preserved in ice they chip it
out and bring it back to the base in a
block and here comes another one of
those great chilling moments when the
guys watching over it and gets creeped
out I loved the theremin music it's such
a product of its time and you would
never hear a movie get away with it
today we all know the thing escapes but
they do a really good job at keeping it
off-camera as much as possible you don't
see it very often but there's always the
sense that it's lurking around somewhere
and when you do see it those moments
really stand out when they light it on
fire
that's a really good eye catching moment
because it's not that often in 1950s
movies you see fire stunts like that
it's not much of a body count movie such
a thing wasn't really established yet so
I can see why modern slasher fans might
not really be into it you got to be in a
classic mood there's a scientist who
wants to stop the others from killing
the thing so he could study it so that's
the biggest conflict the characters
don't agree on which keeps the plot
interesting we fought our way into
nature we've split the atom yes and that
sure made the world happy and the last
goose bump moment is the closing line
the warning watch the skies everywhere
keep looking keep watching the sky I
think it's one of the greatest movie
lines ever watch the skies I'm sure you
heard it referenced somewhere
I know it's used on the theater marquee
and gremlins and was also the working
title for Spielberg's Close Encounters
so if gremlins was actually referenced
in Close Encounters Close Encounters was
referencing the thing mixed with the
chills is good humor that belies that I
saw it I got it I hit it I know Howard
Hawks made a lot of comedies like
bringing a baby and his girl Friday so
he had a knack
directing funny dialogue did you say the
number that bulletin was 629 - 49 item
6700 extract 75,000 130 100 that one now
the best thing about the dialogue in
this movie is that it overlaps and I'm
sending a story Marty tip Scotty what do
you want these bombs whatever they're
about slider characters will always
interrupt each other or there'd be two
separate conversations happening within
the same scene it feels natural that's
how people really talk but for editing a
film that makes it a total nightmare
typically movies stay away from that it
was especially uncommon back then so big
points for the overlapping dialogue that
makes the funny parts funnier because it
never seems like hey pause for the joke
now it's always downplayed many parts I
never really noticed the humor until
after several watches a part that comes
to mind is when they're preparing
themselves to battle the thing and they
hear a window break and one of them says
what was that and the other goes sounded
like a window an even better moment has
to do with the character Scotty he's a
reporter who tags along with the
expedition to get a good story and
that's all he cares about the whole time
where's my story what about my story and
all the other characters are constantly
annoyed by him he wants to get a picture
of the thing and he almost gets the
chance when they unexpectedly find it
behind a door
they immediately shut the door and
barricade it and then one of the masks
did he get your picture Scotty and he
says no the door wasn't open long enough
and the other guy replies want me to
open it again and he goes no so because
of its great suspense great humor and
important place in film history it has a
big place in my heart there's no better
way to put it it's just a classic the
carpenter version is a great remake one
of the best of its kind because it's so
different from the Hawkes version the
Hawkes version takes place on the North
Pole and the carpenter version takes
place on the South Pole I guess you
could say they're polar opposites also
the carpenter version is not subtle at
all it's a full-on gory special-effects
extravaganza which I love in a very
different kind of way in the carpenter
version the monster takes over people's
bodies which it never did in the
original in the original it would
regenerate severed limbs but that was
about it
this is because the carpenter version
drew more source material from the
original story who goes there by John
Campbell some people use this to justify
why they called a carpenter version the
original because it's the first to be a
faithful adaptation but first of all
that's not totally true because the
original deals with the discovery of the
spacecraft and elaborates on that a lot
further but it doesn't matter anyway
even though the Hawks version is a loose
adaptation it's still the first
adaptation it's still the original
besides everything's based on a book you
know but their movies movies are
different from books
also if the carpenter version wasn't
meant to be a remake of any sorts don't
you think he would have called it
who goes there instead of the thing he's
clearly referencing the original even
going as far to replicate the original
title sequence they even make explicit
mention of an earlier crew that arrived
and discovered the alien spaceship which
makes it sort of a quasi sequel they
referenced the melted block of ice where
the thing escaped and the body being lit
on fire
closely resembles the scene from the
original so while it's a very different
movie it pays tribute and is still a
type of remake and I don't want to be a
hypocrite for example if I say the
original Dracula I don't mean to forget
Nosferatu which came before but that one
was called Nosferatu there's other
similar situations to this that can all
be evaluated in their own ways case by
case another one of my favorite movies
is Scarface which I do often neglect to
say is a remake of a 1932 film but it's
one a few times where I actually prefer
the remake and I consider these two to
be even more distant than the thing
because there's an even longer gap of 50
years between them but yeah it's another
situation where a lot of people probably
don't know it's a remake and guess who
directed the original Howard Hawks poor
Howard Hawks also alien is technically a
remake of it the terror from beyond
space because the plot is so similar
with an alien getting on board a
spaceship but the titles are different
and it doesn't come off as intentional
they weren't trying to remake it they
just kind of ripped it off but alien
just so happened to be one of the best
ripoffs ever the original not so good
now
which version of the thing is better I
think it's totally valid to pick either
because they're two completely different
movies all we know is it's not the 2011
version and even if you pick that you're
entitled to your own opinion people
overwhelmingly seem to prefer the
carpenter' version without even giving
the original a chance which is ironic
because the carpenter' version was hated
when it first came out whereas the
original was praised and imitated right
from the beginning the carpenter'
version started gaining appreciation as
time went on so it's my belief that fans
were trying to counterbalance the
negative reception at once had it was
underrated
so they over compensated to get it more
attention and now it's somehow
overshadowed the original I think the
original has better pacing it has a
creepy atmosphere that always
feels like it's building up to something
the carpenter version is just silence
silence silence
jump-scare big special effects scene and
then back to silence and I'm not saying
it's without its strengths it does play
up the claustrophobia the isolation and
paranoia real well but the pacing is a
little uneven and the characters are
kind of flat sure I always loved Kurt
Russell but I prefer the fast-talking
witty characters in the original the
biggest thing the carpenter version has
going for it is the special effects the
special effects are definitely better
but the original wasn't about special
effects special effects are just a tool
to tell the story and the story is
always more important look at how the
original tells the story so well with
hardly any effects I even asked Tom
Savini one time since he made his whole
career in special effects and I thought
for sure he'd prefer the carpenter
version but no he was all about the
original no there's no comparison John
Carpenter's was a great movie but it's a
great movie because of Rob boaties
effects an effects guy was curious if
you had an opinion yeah but-but-but the
original movie that's a that's one of
the great classics
there's overlapping dialogue you hardly
see that in movies today and that gives
you a sense of realism which makes the
scare scarier I think it's very possible
that I was born on the edge of a
generation gap people who saw the
carpenter version first are naturally
going to have a harder time going back
to the original afterwards
lots of people nowadays just don't like
black-and-white movies which is
extremely depressing not to mention the
version on this VHS tape here is the
colorized version yeah Ted Turner was
colorizing a bunch of classic movies in
the 80s this is also the one that aired
on TNT's monster vision so there exists
a colorized version if that's the
problem it's easier to gravitate towards
a movie that's in color has gore cursing
and an actor they can recognize Kurt
Russell of course the carpenter version
is going to be easier to get into but I
think the original deserves more points
just for being the original and
working with minimum I understand why
people like the carpenter version better
but give the Hawks version a chance and
if you're already a fan of the original
let's hear from you for once I know you
gotta be out there but also can I ask a
little favor next time somebody mentions
the thing I want you to ask Hawks or
carpenter and if they go huh that's when
you school
you